README.md, before:

# Hide-and-Seek POMCP Simulator

Simulation framework for robot search and tracking using POMCP (Partially Observable Monte-Carlo Planning) and particle filters. Developed for PhD research on probabilistic human tracking in urban environments.

[![License: LGPL v3](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-LGPL%20v3-blue.svg)](https://www.gnu.org/licenses/lgpl-3.0)
[![Language: C++11](https://img.shields.io/badge/C++-11-00599C.svg)](https://isocpp.org/)
[![Platform: Linux](https://img.shields.io/badge/Platform-Linux-lightgrey.svg)](https://www.linux.org/)

> **Try it online:** [Interactive Hide-and-Seek Belief Simulation](https://alex.goldhoorn.net/projects/hide-and-seek-belief/)

## What's Included

- **POMCP & MOMDP solvers** for real-time robot decision making under uncertainty
- **Particle Filter & Kalman Filter** implementations for tracking
- **Multi-robot cooperative search** algorithms
- **Server-client architecture** for multiplayer games (humans vs robots)
- **ROS integration** for real robot experiments
- **MySQL logging** for experiment analysis
- Maps, policies, and test scenarios from published research

## Publications

**PhD Thesis (2017):**
> *"Searching and Tracking of Humans in Urban Environments by Humanoid Robots"*
> Alex Goldhoorn, IRI CSIC-UPC, Barcelona
> [PDF](https://alex.goldhoorn.net/thesis/Goldhoorn2017_PhD_thesis.pdf) | [Website](https://alex.goldhoorn.net/thesis/)

**Selected Papers:**
- [Searching and Tracking People with Cooperative Mobile Robots](https://alex.goldhoorn.net/publications/ar2016/) (Autonomous Robots, 2017)
- [Searching in Urban Environments with Dynamic Obstacles](https://alex.goldhoorn.net/publications/ras2016/) (Robotics and Autonomous Systems, 2017)
- [Continuous Real Time POMCP to Find-and-Follow People](https://alex.goldhoorn.net/publications/find-and-follow/) (Humanoids, 2014)

**[All publications](https://alex.goldhoorn.net/publications/)**

## Citation

If you use this code in your research, please cite:

```bibtex
@phdthesis{Goldhoorn2017,
    author = "Alex Goldhoorn",
    title = "Searching and Tracking of Humans in Urban Environments by Humanoid Robots",
    school = "Institut de Robòtica i Informàtica Industrial, CSIC-UPC",
    year = "2017",
    month = "June",
    address = "Barcelona, Spain"
}
```

## Quick Start

```bash
# Build the library
cd trunk/build
cmake ..
make

# Or build with Qt for GUI/server
cd trunk
qmake hsmomdp.pro && make    # Automated seeker
qmake hsserver.pro && make   # Game server
qmake hsclient.pro && make   # GUI client
```

See `trunk/README.txt` for detailed build instructions and command-line options.

## Dependencies

**Required:**
- g++ 4.8+ (C++11 support)
- Qt 5
- OpenCV 2.3+ (OpenCV 3.x/4.x supported with modifications)
- Eigen v3
- MySQL 5.6+ (optional, for logging)
- **iriutils** - IRI robotics library ([SVN](https://devel.iri.upc.edu/labrobotica/drivers/iriutils/trunk/), may require IRI access)

> **⚠️ Historical Code Notice:**
> This code is from 2011-2016. Dependencies are outdated by modern standards. Expect to update OpenCV API calls and use newer compiler versions. For a modern demo, see the [web-based simulation](https://alex.goldhoorn.net/projects/hide-and-seek-belief/).

## Example Usage

```bash
# Start game server
./bin/hsserver

# Run POMCP seeker on map 1
./bin/hsmomdp -Gh -scd -A 1 -u TestUser

# Flags: -Gh (hide-and-seek mode), -scd (POMCP discrete states)
# See trunk/README.txt or run with -h for all options
```

## Available Solvers

- **POMCP** (`-scd`, `-scc`) - Online Monte-Carlo planning (discrete/continuous)
- **MOMDP** (`-sl`) - Offline mixed-observability planning
- **Particle Filter** (`-sPu`) - Particle-based tracking
- **Kalman Filter** (`-sKr`) - Linear tracking
- **Multi-robot** (`-sMc`) - Cooperative search
- **Smart Seeker** (`-ss`) - Heuristic baseline

See `trunk/README.txt` for complete command reference.

## License

Copyright (C) 2011-2016 Institut de Robòtica i Informàtica Industrial, CSIC-UPC.

This software is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify it under the terms of the **GNU Lesser General Public License** as published by the Free Software Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or (at your option) any later version.

This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. See the GNU Lesser General Public License for more details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU Lesser General Public License along with this program. If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.

## Contact

**Alex Goldhoorn**
Website: [alex.goldhoorn.net](https://alex.goldhoorn.net)
Email: alex@goldhoorn.net

_Note: The institutional email (agoldhoorn@iri.upc.edu) from the original research is no longer active._

## Credits

Developed at Institut de Robòtica i Informàtica Industrial (IRI), CSIC-UPC, Barcelona (2011-2016).
PhD supervised by Alberto Sanfeliu and René Alquézar.

Uses APPL 0.95 POMDP solver library (included in `trunk/ext_include/appl-0.95/`).

Commit message:

Make title generic: multi-solver simulator, not just POMCP
- Change from 'POMCP Simulator' to 'Robot Search Simulator'
- Emphasize multiple solver implementations upfront
- Update website project page to match
- More accurate representation of the full codebase

README.md, after:

# Hide-and-Seek Robot Search Simulator

Simulation framework for probabilistic robot search and tracking with multiple solver implementations (POMCP, MOMDP, Particle Filters, Kalman Filters, and heuristics). Developed for PhD research on human tracking in urban environments.

[![License: LGPL v3](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-LGPL%20v3-blue.svg)](https://www.gnu.org/licenses/lgpl-3.0)
[![Language: C++11](https://img.shields.io/badge/C++-11-00599C.svg)](https://isocpp.org/)
[![Platform: Linux](https://img.shields.io/badge/Platform-Linux-lightgrey.svg)](https://www.linux.org/)

> **Try it online:** [Interactive Hide-and-Seek Belief Simulation](https://alex.goldhoorn.net/projects/hide-and-seek-belief/)

## What's Included

- **POMCP & MOMDP solvers** for real-time robot decision making under uncertainty
- **Particle Filter & Kalman Filter** implementations for tracking
- **Multi-robot cooperative search** algorithms
- **Server-client architecture** for multiplayer games (humans vs robots)
- **ROS integration** for real robot experiments
- **MySQL logging** for experiment analysis
- Maps, policies, and test scenarios from published research

## Publications

**PhD Thesis (2017):**
> *"Searching and Tracking of Humans in Urban Environments by Humanoid Robots"*
> Alex Goldhoorn, IRI CSIC-UPC, Barcelona
> [PDF](https://alex.goldhoorn.net/thesis/Goldhoorn2017_PhD_thesis.pdf) | [Website](https://alex.goldhoorn.net/thesis/)

**Selected Papers:**
- [Searching and Tracking People with Cooperative Mobile Robots](https://alex.goldhoorn.net/publications/ar2016/) (Autonomous Robots, 2017)
- [Searching in Urban Environments with Dynamic Obstacles](https://alex.goldhoorn.net/publications/ras2016/) (Robotics and Autonomous Systems, 2017)
- [Continuous Real Time POMCP to Find-and-Follow People](https://alex.goldhoorn.net/publications/find-and-follow/) (Humanoids, 2014)

**[All publications](https://alex.goldhoorn.net/publications/)**

## Citation

If you use this code in your research, please cite:

```bibtex
@phdthesis{Goldhoorn2017,
    author = "Alex Goldhoorn",
    title = "Searching and Tracking of Humans in Urban Environments by Humanoid Robots",
    school = "Institut de Robòtica i Informàtica Industrial, CSIC-UPC",
    year = "2017",
    month = "June",
    address = "Barcelona, Spain"
}
```

## Quick Start

```bash
# Build the library
cd trunk/build
cmake ..
make

# Or build with Qt for GUI/server
cd trunk
qmake hsmomdp.pro && make    # Automated seeker
qmake hsserver.pro && make   # Game server
qmake hsclient.pro && make   # GUI client
```

See `trunk/README.txt` for detailed build instructions and command-line options.

## Dependencies

**Required:**
- g++ 4.8+ (C++11 support)
- Qt 5
- OpenCV 2.3+ (OpenCV 3.x/4.x supported with modifications)
- Eigen v3
- MySQL 5.6+ (optional, for logging)
- **iriutils** - IRI robotics library ([SVN](https://devel.iri.upc.edu/labrobotica/drivers/iriutils/trunk/), may require IRI access)

> **⚠️ Historical Code Notice:**
> This code is from 2011-2016. Dependencies are outdated by modern standards. Expect to update OpenCV API calls and use newer compiler versions. For a modern demo, see the [web-based simulation](https://alex.goldhoorn.net/projects/hide-and-seek-belief/).

## Example Usage

```bash
# Start game server
./bin/hsserver

# Run POMCP seeker on map 1
./bin/hsmomdp -Gh -scd -A 1 -u TestUser

# Flags: -Gh (hide-and-seek mode), -scd (POMCP discrete states)
# See trunk/README.txt or run with -h for all options
```

## Available Solvers

- **POMCP** (`-scd`, `-scc`) - Online Monte-Carlo planning (discrete/continuous)
- **MOMDP** (`-sl`) - Offline mixed-observability planning
- **Particle Filter** (`-sPu`) - Particle-based tracking
- **Kalman Filter** (`-sKr`) - Linear tracking
- **Multi-robot** (`-sMc`) - Cooperative search
- **Smart Seeker** (`-ss`) - Heuristic baseline

See `trunk/README.txt` for complete command reference.

## License

Copyright (C) 2011-2016 Institut de Robòtica i Informàtica Industrial, CSIC-UPC.

This software is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify it under the terms of the **GNU Lesser General Public License** as published by the Free Software Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or (at your option) any later version.

This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. See the GNU Lesser General Public License for more details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU Lesser General Public License along with this program. If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.

## Contact

**Alex Goldhoorn**
Website: [alex.goldhoorn.net](https://alex.goldhoorn.net)
Email: alex@goldhoorn.net

_Note: The institutional email (agoldhoorn@iri.upc.edu) from the original research is no longer active._

## Credits

Developed at Institut de Robòtica i Informàtica Industrial (IRI), CSIC-UPC, Barcelona (2011-2016).
PhD supervised by Alberto Sanfeliu and René Alquézar.

Uses APPL 0.95 POMDP solver library (included in `trunk/ext_include/appl-0.95/`).
